Page 1 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
 
ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS 
 
Introduction 
ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC  incorporated under the 
laws of the state of California on 10/31/2022, hereby agreed and adopted this bylaw as shown 
below on the 12/9/2022 by all members.  
ARTICLE 1. Name purposes 
1.1. The name of the cooperative shall be ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND  
COOPERATIVE INC  (AIC) 
1.2. The business of the cooperative shall be the investment of funds received 
from members as well as meeting the credit and savings needs of members. 
We shall promote thrift among members by affording them an opportunity to accumulate 
their savings and to create a source of credit for provident or productive purposes  AIC is 
member-owned, democratically operated , non -for-profit organization 
managed by volunteer executives and board of directors.  
1.3. The term of the cooperative (AIC) shall commence as of  December 9 th, 
2022. Members hereto agreed to belong to the cooperative  and hereto agree 
the cooperative shall not be  terminated by the death or withdrawal of any  
member but shall continue until terminated by the vote of three-fourths of 
the members. In the event of the death or withdrawal of any partner, the 
remaining partners agree to elect to reconstitute and con tinue the 
cooperative.  
 
ARTICLE 2. Membership 
 
2.1. Classes of Members . Assurance Investment and Cooperative INC. (A IC) shall have one  
class of Members. 
 
2.2. Becoming a member. To become a Member of AIC, a person must: 
a. Be a resident in the United States. 
b. Pay an Initial Capit al Contribution; the  amount of the Initial Capital Contribution 
will be determined by the Board of Directors. This can change from time to time.  
Page 2 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
 Be appro ved by the existing Member s, by means of the process described in 
Section 1.3; and 
c. Receive a copy of the Cooperative's Disclosure Statement, Bylaws, and a receipt for 
payment of the Initial Capital Contribution  and agree to  abide by the  applicable 
content therein. 
 
2.3. Acceptance of Members. The application review and approval process for a 
         Prospective Member is as follows: 
a. The Executive committee shall receive the membership application on behalf of 
the members from a Prospective Member. Such an applicant can become a 
bonafide member after presenting the applicant to the members in our meetings 
and, by a vote of t he two -third present, accept the application or deny it. An 
applicant may only contribute money to the cooperative after being accepted by 
the members. Any member that has any reason why any applicant may not be 
admitted to become a member may say so when presenting the applicant to the 
members. This would be subjected to a discussion for a consensus to be reached. 
(Note that AIC does not discriminate except in case of criminal issues) 
b. The executive s hall post the nam e of the prospective applicant to members  
platform for comment . If no negative comment  is received, the prospective 
member will b e accepted within 72 hours after the initial post . If a negative 
comment about a prospective member is given, the executive shall  reach out to 
member for clarification and take appropriate action in conjunction with the board.  
c. The Members shall then decide by the decision -making proces s described in 
Section 5.1 whether to approve the application. 
d. If the application is not approved, the applicant shall duly be informed by the 
secretary of AIC.  
e. Upon approval of the application, and meeting the qualifications listed in Section 1.2, 
the applicant shall immediately become a Member. 
 
2.4. Members May Not Transfer Their Memberships . No Member  may transfer his 
Membership or any right arising from that Membership. Any at tempted assignment or 
Page 3 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
transfer of Membership shall be void and will not confer rights on the inten ded assignee or 
transferee. 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 3. Banking 
 
3.1.   The bank of the partnership shall be such bank or banks as AIC members shall from time to 
time agree upon. 
3.2.  All partnership monies shall, as and wh en received, be paid in to or deposited in the b ank 
to the credit of the partnership account. Such funds shall, at the direction of the partnership 
be invested by the Executive in conjunction with the board and the investment committee-
in-charge of the project. Investment can als o be made in interest-bearing, or dividend -
bearing accounts maintained by a bank or other f inancial institution to the extent that such 
funds are not currently required for the operations of the cooperative. 
3.3.   All checks shall be drawn in the AIC name and manually signed by the President or the 
Chairman of the Investment Committee of the cooperative and the Treasurer or such other 
individual or individuals as may be designated f rom time to time by a majority vote of the 
partnership, except that the wit hdrawal of petty cash wi ll require the signature of the 
president and the treasurer of the cooperative. 
 
 
ARTICLE 4. Termination of Membership  
4.1. Resignation of a Member. 
a. Every Member has the right to resign from the Cooperative. 
b. When a member resigns from AIC his or her Membership will be terminated. 
c. To resign from t he AIC, a member must provide the Secretary of the 
Cooperative with a written notice of resignation. The resignation shall become 
effective immediately without any action on the part  of the Cooperative. The 
individual who resigned from the Cooperat ive will not be allo wed to work for 
the Cooperative for one month following voluntary termination of Membership 
unless his Membership is renewed by the Cooperative. 
Page 4 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
d. If a member resigns, he is still responsible for any charges, dues, or other obligations 
that the Member owes to the Cooperative. The Cooperative shall still have the right 
to enforce any such obligation or obtain damages for its breach. 
 
4.2. Death of Member . A M embership shall immediat ely terminate upon the d eath of a  
Member. 
 
4.3. Expulsion of a Member. No Member may be expelled or suspended exce pt according to 
procedures satisfying the requirements of this section: 
a. A Member may, for any lawful reason, be expell ed from the Cooperative by a 
vote of 75% or grea ter of the Members at a duly called me eting at which a 
quorum is present. 
b. The Member mus t be given 15 days ’ prior notice of the expulsion, suspension, or 
termination, and the reasons for that expulsion, suspension, or termination. 
c. The Member shall have an opportunity to be heard, orally or in writing, not less than 
five days before the effec tive date of expulsion, suspension, or termination, by a 
person or body  authorized to decide that the proposed expulsio n, termination, or 
suspension not take place. 
d. Any notice required under this section may be given by any method reasonably 
calculated to provide actual notice. Any notice given by mail must be given by first -
class or registered mail sent to the last address of the Member shown on the 
Cooperative’s records. 
e. A Member who is expelled or sus pended shall be liable for any charges, dues, or 
other obligations incurred before the expulsion, suspension, or termination. 
f. The Cooperative may direct a Member whose expulsion is being considered to refrain 
from conducting business as a Member until the expulsion decision is made, provided 
the Cooperative pays the Member his average weekly wage or compensation if any– 
calculated based on the three months preceding the date of the notice given pursua nt 
to this section – until the expulsion decision is made. The Cooperative may also direct 
a member whose expulsion is being considered to stay away from the Cooperative ’s 
places of business except as necessary to exercise his rights under law 
Page 5 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
ARTICLE 5. Member Meetings  
5.1.     A physical meeting of the members of AIC shall be held quarterly at a day, hour , and 
place agreed upon . AIC executive may designate another day for a meeting in case it is 
impractical or generally inconve nient to hold a meeting a s herein provided.  AIC may 
organize or permit virtual attendance and participation in meetings. Executives may also 
provide regular updates on investments, news etc., on the web portal 
 
5.2. A virtual meeting shall be hel d monthly to generally discuss the progress of AIC and hear 
report if any for committees. 
 
5.3.     The presence of a majority of  the members at a meeting shall constitute a quorum for the 
transaction of any business. A member may be present at a meeting either in person or by 
proxy, provid ed that no proxy shall be effective unless it is in writing and in a form 
previously approved by the partnership for that purpose. All proper pr oxies shall be 
included in the count of the quorum. 
 
5.4.  A regular annual meeting may be passed by a majority vote at the prior annual meeting. 
 
5.5.  In an emergency, the President of the partnership, may call a special meeting, provided at 
least three days’ notice  in wri ting is sent to all members. The President shall also 
endeavor to give at least three days' p ersonal notice of such special meeting to each 
member. Notwithstanding the foregoing, on twenty -four (24) hours’ notice, a tele phone 
or video conference may be held as a special meeting. 
 
5.5.  Member Voting. 
a. Each Member will have one vote on each matter submitted for a vote irrespective of 
money contributed to the cooperative. 
b. If a vot e requires that Members cast a written ballot, only Members that have 
been Members of the Cooperative for more than 30 days prior to the meeting date 
may be entitled to cast ballots. 
c. Cumulative voting shall not be permitted for any purpose. 
d. Proxy voting shall not be permitted for any purpose. 
Page 6 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
5.6. Annual Members Meeting. 
a. There shall be a quarterly meeting of members to discuss the progress of the   
cooperative. 
b. The Annual Members Meeting shall be held at the end of each year to be agreed on 
c. Executive elections shall be held every two years. 
 
 
5.7.  Special Member Meetings.  
a. Special meetings of the Members for any lawful purpose may be called by the Board, 
President, Secretary, or by at least 5% of the Members. 
b. The procedure for calling a special Members meeting shall be as follows: 
c. The person(s) requesting the special meeting shall submit a written request to the 
Cooperative addressed to the attention of the President or Secretary. 
d. Within 14 days after receipt, the President or Secretary shall cause notice to be 
given to the Members entitled to v ote that a meeting will be held at a time fixed 
by the Board not less t han 20 nor more than 35 days after the receipt of the  
request. 
e. Special meetings shall be held at the principal office of the Cooperative or virtually. 
f. Investment committee can also help a special m eeting accord ingly to discuss and 
deliberate on investment opportunities, issues, and proposals submitted by members  
before briefing the board and executive. The executive will bring u p such matters in the 
annual meetings.   
 
 5.8. Notice.  
a. Whenever the Members are required to take any action at a meeting, a writt en 
notice of t he meetin g shall be given not less than 10 nor m ore than 30 days 
before the date of the meeting to each Member who, on the record date for notice  
of the meeting, is entitled to vote. 
b. The notice shall state the following: 
I. Meeting place, date, and time of the meeting. 
II. If applicable, the log-in or call-in information for telephone/video/web 
conference. 
Page 7 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
III. In the case of a special Members meeting, the general nature of the 
business to be transacted, and that no other business may be transacted, or 
IV. In the case of the regular Members meeting, those matters which the 
Board intends to present for action by the Members. 
c. Notwithstanding the above, any of the following decisions, other than by unanimous 
approval by those entitled to vote, shall be valid only if the general nature of the proposal 
was stated in the notice of meeting or in any written waiver of notice: 
I. Removal of Directors. 
II. Election of a Director to fill a vacancy. 
III. Approval of a contract or other transaction between the Cooperative and 
any corporation, firm, or association in which one or more of its directors     
has a material financial interest or is a director. 
IV. Amendment of the articles of incorporation; and 
V. Approval of a plan of distribution upon winding up of the Cooperative. 
d. Notice of a Members’ meeting or any report shall be given personally, by electronic 
transmission, or by mail or other mean s of written communication, addressed to a 
Member at the a ddress of such Member appearing on the books of the Cooperative or 
given by the Member to the Cooperative for purpose of notice. 
  
5.9.  Members Entitled to Notice.  
   A Member shall be entitled to notice of any meeting, so long as their Membership became 
official 30 days before the meeting date. 
 
5.10.  Meetings Held Without Proper Notice. 
 
a. Members not present:  The transactions of a meeting, whether or not validly called 
and noticed, are valid if a quorum is present and each of the absent Members who is 
entitled to vote, either before or after the meeting, signs either: a w ritten waiver of 
notice, a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an approval o f the minutes of the 
meeting. All waivers, consents, a nd approvals shall be filed with the corporate 
records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting. 
Page 8 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
b. Members present: A Member's attendance at a meeting shall constitute a  waiver of 
notice of and presen ce at the meeting unless the Member objects at  the beginning of 
the meeting. However, attendance at a meetin g is not a waiver of any right to object 
to the consideration of matter required to be included in the notice but not included if 
an objection is made at the meeting. 
 
5.11.  Use of Written Ballots at Meetings.  
a. Written ballots will be used for the election  of Officers and may be used for 
Executives, when applicable. W ritten ballots may also be distributed for other 
matters if the Board authorizes. 
b. Ballots for Officers elections must: 
I. Be distributed at least 10 days before the annual meeting. 
II. Include the names of all nominees; and 
III. Include a space for write-in candidates. 
c. Other written ballots must: 
I. Describe the proposed action; and 
II. Provide an opportunity to approve or disapprove of the proposed action. 
d. All ballots shall specify: 
I. The number of responses necessary to reach quorum; and 
II. The deadline by which the ballot must be filled out and tur ned in, in order to 
 be counted. 
e. When ballots are distributed a t a meeting, the number of Members vot ing shall be 
considered present for the purposes of dete rmining quorum with respect to the 
specific actions in the ballot. 
 
5.12. Quorum. A majority of Members shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of Members. 
When a quorum is present, proposals shall be ad opted using consensus process unless 
otherwise required in the Articles or Bylaws. 
 
5.13.   Loss of Quorum at a Meeting. If there is a quorum present at the beginning of a meeting 
and then some Members leave so that less than a quorum remains, the remaining Members 
may continue to conduct business, as long as any actions they take (other than 
Page 9 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
adjournment) reflect consensus of, or when voting is called for, at least three-fourths of the 
Members required to constitute a quorum. 
 
5.14. Adjournment for Lack of Quorum.  In the absence of quorum, a m ajority of present  
Members can vote to adjourn the meeting , and no other business may be transacted, 
except as provided in Section 3.10 above. 
 
5.15. Adjourned Meetings. 
a. If a me eting is adjourned to  a new time/place, Members may cond uct any 
business at the new meeting that could have been conducted at the origina l 
meeting. 
b. If the new meeting is announced at the original  meeting, no additional notice is 
required. However, if the new meeting is more t han 30 days after the original 
meeting or if a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the 
new meeting must be given to each Member entitled to vote at that meeting. 
 
5.16. Action Without Meetings. 
 
a. Any action which may be taken at any regular or special Members meeting  may be 
taken without a meeting if the Cooperative distributes a written ballot t o every 
Member entitled to vote on that proposal. 
b. The writ ten ballot shall set fo rth the proposal, provide the opportu nity to specify 
approval or disapproval of the proposal,  indicate the number of responses needed to 
meet quorum, the percentage of approvals necessary to pass the proposal; and provide 
a reasonable time within which to return the ballot. 
c. Approval under this section shall be valid only when: 
The Cooperative receives within the specified timeframe a number of written ballots 
that is at least equal to the quorum required for a meeting; and 
d.    The number of approvals is at le ast equal to the number of approvals required at a 
meeting. 
e. The Secretary shall cause a vote  to be taken by written ballot upon any action or  
recommendation proposed in writing by 20 percent of the Members. 
 
Page 10 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
ARTICLE 6. Directors’ Meetings 
6.1. Directors and Board Composition. 
a. The registering board members shall serve on the board of AIC 
b. There shall be no more than 5 board 
c. If there are fewer than 3 Members, the Member(s) sh all elect members to complete 
the numbers.  
 
6.2. Terms of Executives.  
a. The term of office of the executives shall be two years. 
b. Bi-annually, new executives shall be elected to steer the affairs of the cooperative.  
c. Notwithstanding the above, a perso n whose Membership is terminated cannot 
continue to be either an executive or a member of the cooperative.  
6.3. Executives Voting. Executives shall vote as a member  
 
6.4. Notice of Meetings. 
a. Regular meetings will be held the third Sunday of every month at an agreed upon 
time physically or virtually. If the day fixed for the regular meeting falls on a legal 
holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same time on the next day. 
b. Special meetings shall be held upon four days’ notice by first-class mail or 48 hours’ 
notice delivered personally, by tele phone, including a voice  messaging system, or by 
electronic transmission by the Coopera tive. A notice, or waiver of notice, need not 
specify the purpose of any regular or special meetings of the Board. 
 
6.5. Waiver of Notice. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any Director who  provides a 
waiver of notice or consent to holding the meeting  or an approval of the minutes in 
writing, whether bef ore or after the meeting, o r who attends the meeting without 
protesting the lack of notice to that Director. All waivers, consents, and appro vals shall 
be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meetings. 
 
6.6. Quorum. 
a. A majority of Members shall constitute a quorum for a Board meeting. 
Page 11 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
b. When a quorum is present, proposals shall be adopted using the modified consensus 
process as described in Section 5.1, unless otherwise req uired in the articles or 
bylaws. 
 
6.7. Loss of Quorum at Meeting.  If there is a q uorum present at the beginning of a  
meeting and then some Directors leave so that less than a quorum remains, the 
remaining Directors may continue to conduct business as long as any actions they take 
(other than adjournment) reflect consensus of, or when v oting is called for, at least 
three-fourths of the Directors required to constitute a quorum. 
 
6.8. Adjournment for Lack of Quorum . In the absence of quorum, a majority of pre sent 
Directors can vote to adjourn the meeting. No other business may be transact ed, except 
as provided in Section 4.7 above 
6.9. Adjourned Meetings.  A majority of the Members present, whether or not a quorum is  
present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place. If the meeting is adjourned for 
more than 24 hours, notice of any adjournment to another time or place shall be given prior 
to the time of the adjourned meeting to the Directors wh o were not present at the time of 
the adjournment. 
 
6.10. Action Without Meeting. The Board of Directors and executives may take action without 
a meeting in the best interest of the cooperative.  The written consents shall  be filed with 
the minutes of the meetings. Action by wr itten consent has the same force and ef fect as a 
unanimous vote of the members. 
 
6.11. Resignation. 
a. The only way that a member may resign is by formally informing AIC of the 
intention in writing.  
b. In a case where a Director may resign, the following procedure shall be followed: 
 
I. A Director may resign effective upon givi ng written notice to the 
President, the Secretary of the Cooperative, unless the notice specifies a 
later time for the effectiveness of such resignation. 
Page 12 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
II. The Board shall then appoint a person to fill the vacancy and serve until 
the next Annual Members Meeting. 
 
6.12. Removal. 
a. Directors may not be removed except if they cease to be Members. 
b. The Board may declare vacant the office of a director whose eligibility for election as 
a Director has ceased, or who has been declared of unsound min d by a final order of 
court, or convicted of a felony. 
c. Directors may be removed without cause by the Members, if removal is approved by 
a vote of 75% or greater of all Members at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is 
present. 
d. Vacancies caused by remov al may only be filled by approval of  a majority o f all 
Members. 
 
6.13.  Empowered Committees. 
a. The Board may e stablish committees Each committee shall c onsist of two or more 
Directors who serve at the pleasure of the Board. 
b. An empowered committee shall have the s ame authority as the Board, except with 
respect to: 
I. Approval of any action that by law requires approval by most of  the 
Members. 
II. Filling vacancies of the Board or any committee that has the authority of 
the Board. 
III. Fixing compensation of Directors for serving on the Board. 
IV. Amendment or repeal of the Bylaws or adoption of new Bylaws. 
V. Amendment or repeal of any resolution that the Board has expressly 
deemed not amendable or repeatable. 
VI. Establishment of committees of t he Board or appointing Members to such 
committees. 
VII. Expenditure of corporate funds  to support a nominee for Directo r (if there 
are more people nominated for Director than open slots available). 
 
Page 13 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
ARTICLE 7. Decision-Making Process  
7.1. Modified Consensus Decision-Making Process. 
a. Matters will be discussed with the goal of reaching a consensus. 
b. If consensus cannot be reached, Members will vote on whether the issue must be 
decided at the current meeting or can be tabled for future discussion. 
c. If at lea st three-fourths of the quorum believe that an imme diate decision is 
needed, voting will be held on proposals regarding the issue. 
d. The proposals can then be carried by a three-fourths vote, except as otherwise 
provided in these bylaws. 
 
 
ARTICLE 8. Officers  
8.1. Titles of Officers. 
a. Officers of the Cooperative shall be: 
I. A President, 
II. A vice President 
III. A Secretary, 
IV. A Chief Financial Officer,  
V. Treasurer 
VI. Assistant Treasurer 
VII. Any other Officer with a title and duties determined by the Board 
b. The President is the Chief Executive Officer of the Cooperative. 
c. One person may hold any number of offices, except the President and Secretary 
shall not be the same person. 
 
8.2. Duties of Officers. 
a. Officers’ duties include those duties: 
I. Prescribed by law, 
II. Granted by these Bylaws, and/or 
III. Granted by resolutions of the Board. 
b. The Secretary must ensure that the Cooperatives ’ records and reports are 
properly kept and filed. 
Page 14 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
c. The Vice president sha ll preside in meetings if the president is not present or 
available 
d. The Vice President shall take on the duties of the Se cretary if the Secr etary is 
unable or unwilling to do so. 
e. It shall be  the duty of the President to preside at meetings, 
appoint committees (in partnership with the board)  and oversee 
all cooperative activities. 
 
8.3.  Nomination and Election of Officers. 
a. Any Member can nominate any Member, including himself/herself, for any office. 
Nominations shall take place at the Annual Member Meeting and at the preceding 
regular meeting when election is to take place. 
b. Officers shall then be elected at the Annual Member Meeting by written ballot, to 
serve two-year terms. The candidate receiving the highest number of votes for an 
office shall be elected. 
 
6.4 Resignation or Removal of Officers. 
a. Officers can be removed by a vote of the Board. 
b. Any Officer may resign at any time with written notice to the Cooperative. 
c. Vacancies shall be filled at the next Board meeting. 
 
ARTICLE 9. Financial Provisions 
 
9.1.  Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Cooperative is January 1st through December 31st. 
 
9.2.  Definitions. 
a.   “Surplus” shall be defined as the excess of revenues over Expenses for a fiscal  
year attributable to Member labor. 
b.  “Profit” shall be defined as the excess of revenues over Expenses for a fis cal 
year attributable to non-Member labor. 
c.   “Loss” shall be defined as the excess of E xpenses over revenues for a fiscal 
year. 
Page 15 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
d.   Surplus, Profit, and Loss shall  be determined on a tax basis. Surplus a nd 
Profit shall not include cash contributions by Members to capital. 
e.  “Expenses” shall include Distributions paid pursuant to Section 7.6, pay ments 
of any interest and principal on any debts of the Cooperative, and reasonable 
reserves as determined by the Board of Directors. 
f.   The “Collective Account” shall be S urplus, Profit, and  reserves that are 
retained in the Cooperative and not distributed to Members. 
g.  “Patronage” shall be defined as hours worked by each Member for the 
        Cooperative. 
i.  “Member Account” shall be defined as each Member’s capital account in the 
        Cooperative (initial capital contribution plus w ritten notices of allocation  minus 
Distributions minus Lo sses plus/minus any other item that affects the balance in 
the Member’s capital account). 
j. “Distribution” means the distribution of interest on capital contributed but does 
not include Patronage Dividends. 
 
 
9.3.  Allocations. 
a. Any Profit shall be credited to the Collective Account. 
b. Any Surplus shall be credited to the Collective Account a s necessary to bring the 
year’s contribution to the Collective Account up to 25% of the year’s combined 
 
Profit/Surplus. Surplus and dividend should be paid to members who is part of the 
investment according to the percentage contributed for the investment.  
c. Any Loss shall be all ocated 75% to Member Accounts in direct proporti on to 
Patronage duri ng the fiscal year and 25% to the Collective Account , with the 
exception of Losses occurring and/or carried over from the Cooperative’s first two 
fiscal years, which shall be allocated 100% to the Collective Account. 
d. The percentages ref erred to in this se ction can be changed for the coming fiscal 
year by the Board. 
 
 
Page 16 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
9.4.        Members’ Covenant to Declare Income for Tax Purposes.  
 Each Member shall take  into account on his or her income ta x return any 
Patronage Dividends which are made  in qualified written notices of alloca tion 
(as defined in 26 U.S.C. Se ction 1388) at their  stated dollar amounts in the 
manner provided in 26 U.S.C. Section 1385(a) in the  taxable year in which the 
Member re ceives such written notices of allocation.  Cooperative may ask for 
relevant documentation or information before dividend cash be d isbursed for 
income tax purpose. 
 
9.5.  Distributions of Interest on Member Accounts.  
The Cooperative may, by a decision  of the Board, pay interest to Members on the 
Members Accounts. The interest may be paid in cash or as an additional credit to the 
Member Accounts. The rate of interest shall be determined by the Board, but may not , 
in one year, exceed 15 percent of each Member ’s contributed capital,  which includes 
capital contributions, membership fees, and capital credits. 
 
9.6.      Periodic Redemption of Member Accounts. 
 
a. The Cooperative shall aim to pay out in cash to the Mem bers all funds credited to 
their Member Accounts within three years of the date they were first credited. 
b. As a genera l rule, written notices of allocation credited to M ember Accounts 
(including notices now converted to debt) will be paid out in the order in which they 
are credited, with the oldest paid out first. However, t he Board can decide to 
accelerate the repayment of debt owed to former Members on a case-by-case basis. 
c. If the Cooperative does not have sufficient funds to pay out all funds credited t o 
Member Accounts for a given fiscal year, then funds will be paid out  in proportion 
to the balance in the Member Accounts. 
 
9.7.  Payment Rights Upon Membership Termination. 
 
a. When a Membership is terminated for any reason, including a member’s death, the 
amount in the Member Account will automatically be converted to debt owed to the 
former Member, o r, if necessary, to the Member ’s e state, or to  another assignee 
designated by the Member. 
Page 17 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
b. The Cooperative shall repay the debt within six months  of the Membersh ip 
termination, with interest accruing at the discount rate –plus two percent, on the 
amount out standing at the end  of each fiscal year. There would be necessary 
deductions however due to AIC.  
c. The Cooperative, in settling a Member Account, shall have the r ight to set off any 
and all indebtedness of the former Member to the Cooperative. 
 
9.8.  Priority of Payments.  
Notwithstanding anything else to the con trary in this Ar ticle, payments by the 
Cooperative shall be made in the following order of priority: 
a. First, to make payments of any necessary expenses related to the operation  of the 
cooperative, including wages, and payments of any interest and principal on any 
debts of the Cooperative, 
b. Second, to pay Patronage Dividends to all eligible Members, 
c. Third, to pay Distributions to all eligible Members, and 
d. Fourth, to make periodic redemptions pursuant to Section 9.7. 
 
9.9.  Dissolution Distributions. 
a. Upon liquidation, dissolution, or sale of the assets of the Co operative, any assets left 
after payment of all debts  and Member Account balances shall be distributed to all 
persons who are current or living past Members in proportion to the number of hours 
each Member worked during the time, he or she was a Member of the Cooperative. 
b. No distribution need be made to any person who fails to acknowledge the receipt of 
notice of liquidation i n a timely manner. Said notice shall be deemed sufficient if 
sent by certified ma il, at least 30 days before distribution of any resi dual assets, to 
the person’s last known business or residence address. 
 
9.10.  Unclaimed Equity Interests.  
Any proprietary i nterest in the Cooperative held by a  Member that will otherwise escheat 
to the State of California as unclaimed personal property shall instead become the property 
Page 18 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
of the Cooperative if  the Cooperative gives at least 90 days prior notice of the proposed 
transfer to the affected Member by 
a. first-class or email to the last address es of the Membe r shown  on the 
Cooperative’s records, and  
b. By publication in a newspaper of general  circulation in  the county in which the 
Cooperative has its principal office. No property or funds shall become the 
property of the  Cooperative under this section if writ ten notice  objecting to the 
transfer is received by the Cooperative from the affected Member prior to the date 
of the proposed transfer. 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 10. Loans 
 
10.1. If at any time, in the opinion of the cooperative, additional capital shall be 
desirable to carry out the p artnership's investment program, the Pres ident with the 
approval of the board and all executive members, may secure such additional 
capital from banks or other sou rces, or any partner. The President shall not, 
however, have the authority t o obligate the partnership with respect thereto unless 
such action has been specifi cally authorized by an affirmative vote  (physical or by 
video conference) of not less than sev enty-five percent (75%) of the member s the 
board, executive and the committee i n charge of the p roject. Evidence of such 
authorization shall be in the form of a written containing the date and location of 
the meeting at which the autho rization was so voted a nd the signature  of each 
member of the Investment Committee. No member shall be liable for the  
repayment of such borrowed additional capital beyond h is proportionate share of 
partnership liabilities, and the partnersh ip and each of the partners shall indemnify 
and hold each partner harmless from and against any liability in connect ion 
therewith that exceeds that partner's propor tionate share of partnership liabilities. 
In the event of any borrowing to acquire real property, such financing shall be on a 
non-recourse basis secured by the assets of the cooperative and no member shall 
have any obligation for the repayment of such loan. 
 
Page 19 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
10.2. Member’s loan from the cooperative funds. Members can apply for loans from the 
cumulative funds they contributed m inus funds t he coope rative used a s an 
investment as agreed by the member. Members can borrow more than the amount 
contributed provided  
a. 2 members of the cooperat ive can serve as guarantors and be held 
accountable in case of default, and  
b. The amount intends to borrow does not exceed the cumulative amount in the 
member and his guarantors’ account. 
 
ARTICLE 11. Title to cooperative property 
All property purchased with AIC funds shall be carried in the name of AIC  or in the name of the 
board members as trustees for the cooperative. 
 
ARTICLE 12. Profits and Loses 
12.1.  The net profits of AIC shall be divided among the partners and the net losses shall be 
borne by them in proportion to their partnership interests. 
12.2.  All or part of the assets of the cooperative may be apportioned and distrib uted among 
the partners equally upon a three -fourths (3/ 4) vote at a regu lar meeting of the 
partnership. 
12.3.  For purposes of the federal Internal Revenue Code and any similar tax law  of any 
state or jurisdiction, the determination of each partner's distribu tive share of all items 
of income, expense, tax deduction and depreciation,  if any, shall be allocated to 
the members in proportion to their interests and in  accordance with the regulations 
under section 704 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
 
ARTICLE 13. Corporate Records and Reports  
13.1.  Records Required to Be Kept. The Cooperative shall keep at its principal office: 
a. The original or a copy of its Articles and Bylaws as amended to date. 
b. Adequate and correct books and records of account. 
c. Minutes of the proceedings of its Members, Board, a nd committees of the  Board; 
and 
Page 20 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
d. A record of its members, providing their names and addresses as well as their next of 
kin 
Minutes and other books and records shall be kept either in written form or in any other 
form capable of being converted into clearly legible tangible for m or i n any 
combination of the foregoing. 
 
 13.2.  Inspection Rights. 
a. The Cooperative’s Bylaws and Articles shall be open to inspection by the 
Members at all reasonable times during office hours. 
b. Any such inspection may be made in person or by agent or att orney and the rig ht of 
inspection includes the right to copy and make extracts. 
c. The accounting books and records and minutes of pr oceedings of the Members and 
the Board and committees of the Board shall be open to inspection upon the written 
demand on the Cooperative of an y Membe r at any reasonable time, for a purpose 
reasonably related to such person’s interests as a Member. 
d. Every Director shall have the absolute right at any reasonable time to inspect all 
books, records and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties 
of the Cooperative. 
 
13.3.  Annual Report. 
a. The annual report shall be prepared no later than 60 days after the close of the 
Cooperative’s fiscal year and shall be distributed to Members at or before their 
next meeting. 
b. The annual report shall contain in appropriate detail: 
 
I. A balance sheet as of the end of the fiscal year. 
II. An income statements. 
III. A cash flow statement of the fiscal year; 
 A statement of where the names and addresses of current Members are     
located; and 
Page 21 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
IV. An annual statement of transactions and indemnifications to “interested 
persons” as defined by law. 
c. For fiscal years in which t he Cooperative has (at any given time) over 25 
Members, the Cooperative shall notify each Member of his/her right to receive an 
annual financial report. 
d. The annual report shall be accompanied by any perti nent report by independent 
accountants. 
e. If there is no such report from an independent accountant, an authorized Officer of 
the Cooperative shall certify that the annual report was pr epared from the books 
and records of the Cooperative, without audit. 
 
 
ARTICLE 14. Dissolution 
The Cooperative may be dissolved and terminated upon  
a. The vote or agreement of three-fourths of the partners or  
b. Upon any such dissolution and terminatio n, the partn ers shall promptly liquidate 
the affairs of the cooperative and by distributing all remaining assets, in cash or in 
kind or partly in cash and partly in kind, to  the members or their representatives 
in the ratios of their respective capital accounts on the  date of dissolut ion and 
termination. 
 
 
     ARTICLE 15. Amendment 
 
These Articles may be amended or revoked, or new Article s may be adopted, upon a vote of 
three-fourths (3/4) of all the members of AIC. All prior membership agreements are 
superseded and replaced by the provisions of this partnership agreement. 
 
 
 ARTICLE 16. Arbitration 
 
Any dispute which cannot be settled among the members involved shall, upon request of any 
members involved, be settled by arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American 
Arbitration Association then in effect. 
 
 
Page 22 of 22 | ASSURANCE INVESTMENT AND COOPERATIVE INC. BYLAWS- 12/22/2022 
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 17. Indemnification 
 
The Coop erative shall have the power to indemnify its Board, Officers, Directors, 
Members, employees, and agents to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
 
ARTICLE 18. Bylaws Changes 
Bylaws Changes. The Bylaws can be changed only by a vote as Members in the circumst ances 
defined in article 15.  
 
Certificate of Secretary 
I certify that I am the duly elected and acting Secretary of AIC, Inc. that these Bylaws, consisting 
of _________ __ pages, are  the B ylaws of this cooperative as  adopted by the Members on 
__________________, 20 22 and Executed on ________________, 20 22 at 
____________________, California, by _________________________________. 
 
 
 
 
 